# How the?

Well, let's look into just how the&hellip; Let us consider this following
components in your Rails app:

**Models**

    class Company < ActiveRecord::Base
      has_many :people
    end

    class Person < ActiveRecord::Base; end

**Routes**

    resources :companies do
      resources :people
    end

And let us further suppose that we're going to be doing some work with people
scoped under companies. With that as our set-up, let's look into the
`decent_exposure` API!

## `.expose(name, options={}, &block)`

This is the main interface that you'll interact with `decent_exposure`
through. It has one required argument and two optional arguments. For many
cases, you'll only need to supply the first, required argument. We'll explore
this first.

Consider the following controller:

    class PeopleController < ApplicationController

      expose(:person)

      def create
        if person.save
          redirect_to(people_path)
        else
          render :edit
        end
      end

      def update
        if person.save
          redirect_to(person)
        else
          render :edit
        end
      end

      def destroy
        person.destroy && redirect_to(people_path)
      end

    end

If what we need is a full lifecycle of CRUD operations for our controller, then
that's all the code we need to do it.

In our view, we just access the `person` method that's exposed to the view (we
accomplish this by using Rails' builtin [`helper_method`][helper] macro under
the hood). Do this anywhere you might ordinarily have used the `@person`
instance variable, if you were following the same naming convention.

That's the nuts and bolts of it. However, what we want in a Rails' application
is rarely that simple, so let's have a look at that options hash!

## Configuring `.expose`

Here's a list of valid options you can pass as the second argument to
`.expose`:

<dl>
  <dt><code>:ancestor</code></dt>
  <dd>Symbolized name of another exposure to scope from</dd>
  <dt><code>:model</code></dt>
  <dd>Symbolized name of the model to use for that exposure</dd>
  <dt><code>:params</code><dt>
  <dd>Symbolized name of the method to call on the controller to get a
  <code>params</code> hash</dd>
  <dt><code>:finder</code></dt>
  <dd>Symbolized name of the method used to find the record</dd>
  <dt><code>:finder_parameter</code></dd>
  <dd>Symbolized name of the <code>params</code> attribute containing the
  <code>finder</code> method's unique identifier</dd>
</dl>

[helper]: http://goo.gl/wne0F

Next let's look at some potential usage for each of these options:

### `:ancestor`

This will be a frequently used option in most applications. In fact, probably
90% of the time this is all the additional configuration you'll want to do.

Looking back at our example models, we note that a `Company` `has_many`
`people`. In order to represent this in our controller, we would previously
have written something like this:

    class PeopleController < ApplicationController

      def update
        @company = Company.find(params[:company_id])
        @person = @company.people.find(params[:id])
        if @person.save
          redirect_to(people_path)
        else
          render :edit
        end
      end

    end

With `decent_exposure` we approach that in a declarative fashion, like so:


    class PeopleController < ApplicationController

      expose(:company)
      expose(:people, ancestor: :company)

      def update
        if person.save
          redirect_to(people_path)
        else
          render :edit
        end
      end

    end

The scoping of the resource to it's parent (widely considered a best practice)
is handled for you, so long as you specify the `:ancestor`.


### `:model`

This is the another option you'll likely get some mileage out of.
Extrapolating further on our supposed object model, let us assume that we have
a need to see a `Person` in both a public and private fashion. We may want to
signify that by changing the name of our interface method depending on the
situation:

    class PeopleController < ApplicationController
      expose(:person)
    end

    class EmployeesController < ApplicationController
      expose(:employee, model: :person)
    end

Naming is both important and hard, so there's no sense in `decent_exposure`
handicapping your interactions with your object system... Call a duck a duck
and an employee an employee.

### `:params`

This may not be something you often run across the need for, but I suspect a
few framework implementers or people dealing with external posts might enjoy
this bit of configuration.

The `:params` option lets you specify the name of a method, as a symbol to
call in lieu of the standard `ActionController#params` method:

    class PeopleController < ApplicationController
      expose(:people, params: :scrubbed_params)

      def scrubbed_params
        params.slice(:foo,:bar,:baz)
      end
    end

The behavior of an exposure specifying it's `:params` method is otherwise
unchanged.

### `:finder` and `:finder_parameter`

You'll often find these two together, so we'll discuss them together. The
`:finder` option allows you to specify which method to call on the exposure's
model to "find" the referenced resource.

Let's assume the following route:

    get 'people/:slug' => 'people#show'

This means our faithful `params[:id]` isn't going to work, but only at the
expense of having a more descriptive name, because apparently we're going to
have user-specified URLs.

The additional implication here is that we probably don't want to go around
using `Person.find(params[:slug])` anymore either, as a `slug` is not an `id`.

`decent_exposure` answers this problem like so:

    class PeopleController < ApplicationController
      expose(:people, finder: :find_by_slug, finder_parameter: :slug)
    end

Where convention isn't what we need or want, we opt for configuration.

## `.expose!(name, options={}, &block)`

By default, `decent_exposure` won't evaluate the exposure until something
calls it. This is "lazy loading" 101, and it's normally a _Very Good Thing_.
Sometimes though, we need to have the results of the exposure eagerly loaded.
This is typically so that the controller can catch and handle errors in the
underlying query. We often need this sort of thing when our friend
[RBAC][rbac] is introduced to the system so we can do things like let an
`ActiveRecord::RecordNotFound` turn into a `404` page.

When you find yourself in need this behavior, just fire off a round: bang!
bang! like so:

    class PeopleController < ApplicationController
      expose!(:people)
    end

The method signature is the same, just add a `!` and you opt into
eager-loading. Easy peezy.

## Other topics

From here you may want to look into [advanced usage](/advanced) or maybe look
into how to go about [contributing](/contributing).

[rbac]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Role-based_access_control
